throughout our conversation here we've
touched on a lot of the different pieces
of what your research shows would be the
best treatment currently
that's that is supported by your
paradigm
I think it'd be helpful for people with
the disclaimer it's not follow this
advice and carry your cancer but
from a research perspective as a
disclaimer
what is your research showing at this
point the nuts and bolts because there
is Nuance to all this and you're not
going to get into all the Nuance but
what is the nuts and bolts we know
ketogenic diet is a piece of it getting
into ketosis we know uh stopping the the
glutamine fuel is another big piece of
this but just give us within a few
minutes the nuts and bolts of what the
best research is currently showing
like I said is there any kind of a
cancer out there
anywhere that can survive without
glucose and glutamine because the more
you study every type of cancer and under
every kind of a condition
and you can't find one that can survive
on glucose and glutamine because if you
can find a tumor cell that can survive
on glucose and glutamine then we would
have to reevaluate uh some of our where
we stand on this
um I would have to say either they have
a norm is it possible that a cancer cell
could get energy sufficiently from
oxidative phosphorylation and then we
would have to be uh look at that more
carefully is it so far we haven't found
that and and I think
um as long as we can continue to
interrogate cancer cells and find out
what they're dependent on for viability
then it becomes a clear plathon path on
how to kill them or eliminate them from
the body so uh yes we keep we we're not
we'd like to work now get more into the
in lung cancer and breast cancer and
colon cancer cells we've done a lot of
brain cancer uh and we can't find any
brain tumor that can survive under these
conditions but when I look at the
biology of of colon and abreast and
bladder and lung I see the same under
the microscope
from already ultrastructural studies
done by by Pathologists I see the same
abnormalities in the number structure
and function of the mitochondria in a
colon breast and bladder cancer and
whatever as I see in the brain cancer so
so that would tell me for sure that
these guys are probably going to be
dependent on the same fuels as the
breast tumor so we'll just have to take
we have to just go through the whole
list of all the major cancers
and just show that they know there's no
cancer that can survive and if there is
we really we really want to know about
it but so far we haven't found that and
as long as you can show that you have
the same kind of a problem and all these
different kinds of cancers
it's pretty heavy evidence to say we we
need to we need to Target those things
and that's based on the mitochondrial
metabolic theory of cancer not on the
gene Theory every one of those cancers
that I mentioned if you look at their
genetic mutations they're all different
from each other
um and yet the field is focusing on the
unique differences in these cancers
because they come out Precision medicine
your unique cancer and all this stuff
that's the kind of buzzwords they they
have a tendency to use on television
when they're into when they're
um trying to tell you about how
wonderful their treatments are you know
we we have something for your cancer we
specifically if these cancers are all
the same uh very similar then you should
have one treatment treats all
um very with minimal modifications for
one type of cancer versus another so if
we are able to show that they're all
very similar there is no other uh fuel
that they can use there's no other
opportunity for them to stay alive then
the plant path forward becomes more and
more clear
then you know I've shown clearly the
path forward and this can be easily uh
adapted for the clinic easily very very
easily
so this is the this is what we're doing
uh this is what we have to do and keep
doing this and doing it and until we
have not a breath left in our body to
say that this we cannot find any
exceptions to this general rule that
they are dependent on fermentation they
get energy without oxygen therefore that
tells you the plan and the way to attack
and Destroy these cancer cells without
toxicity and harm is it going to be easy
for everybody no why because you have to
be an advocate and a participant in the
own your own healing process you know
this is the thing people have to know
that if you want to get rid of your
cancer and the burden Falls heavily upon
your shoulders okay so and I have the
science to say what you should do but
it's up to you to do to determine
whether or not you want to do that
well even to be preventative and to live
a healthy lifestyle you have to go
against the grain and do your own
research these days
um I think it's pretty clear I I think
it's pretty clear uh what's killing most
Americans uh it's high highly processed
carbohydrate Foods there's no question
about this
um it's a it's what what we put into our
mouth uh that's killing us that's
causing most of the chronic diseases
that we have in our society comes from
what we eat
um it's not our genes believe me it's
our environment and what we eat what we
are putting in our mouth is ultimately
causing an imbalance of the metabolic
homeostasis in our body
obesity okay and then and then somebody
else who may not be obese gets cancer
because that person in that in that
environment that metabolic disturbance
puts him at risk uh for this how do we
how do we change a lot of people are
unaware it's unbelievable how many
people do not know that obesity will
will reduce how long they live on the
planet they don't know that do they it's
unbelievable how many people don't know
that being fat will reduce the life life
expectancy
I'm telling you right now being obese
will reduce your life expectancy on the
planet and especially when you see
little kids that are overweight I mean
those little kids are at now a major
disadvantage of having a long a a
successful longevity every no not
everybody but it's certainly a
significant number of them and it's not
just cancer it's cardiovascular disease
dementia are you kidding me so I told
you the last time they had a big study
on the Mediterranean diet that showed
that you can significantly reduce cancer
dementia and
um obesity with a Mediterranean it
wasn't the Mediterranean diet it was the
consumption of foods that did not
contain uh highly High poorly nutritious
uh processed carbohydrates that's the
killer highly processed carbohydrates
and they taste good and the problem is
I'm not advocating we get rid of that
stuff all I'm advocating is that every
time that touches your lips you put
yourself at some level of risk that's
your choice though I mean it's
everybody's choice we're not going to
shut down all these fast food joints and
we're not going to do all this stuff but
people have to know that that stuff is
putting us at risk for chronic disease
and for some people that might impact
many people don't care so I mean what
are you going to do people don't care
okay well then you don't care then don't
don't complain about having cancer and
diabetes and all these other diseases
because who did that the pharmaceutical
industry didn't do that to you the
federal government didn't do that to you
you did it to yourself buy it right I
agree with what you're saying but the
point I was trying to make was the fact
that you are going against the grain
when you make different choices because
you know every corner you look there's a
fast food place and processed food is
everywhere in the grocery store and and
you look at even you know the the
government uh food guides and what
what's trickling down for people to
follow when it comes to diet
you have to go against the grain and do
your own research to live differently
as as prevention
or treatment we're learning today yeah
yeah I agree I mean it's it's us as you
said from the very beginning cancer is
us uh but but you're right things are
made but we're not going to go down and
shut down all the fast food shops I mean
every now and then I I'll grab a burger
like once every two years and say is it
good oh damn it's unbelievably good I
mean you ever have a Subway sandwich or
one of these things you tremble while
you're just so damn good you know but if
you're eating them every day it's going
to kill you you know but every now and
then it's not going to kill you but um I
hate to be so crude like that but you
know the bottom line is that our society
is unhealthy
uh we are moving into a new phase of our
existence on this planet and its chronic
disease phase and uh there's a lot of
things we are spending so much money on
Health Care all these chronic diseases
billions and billions of dollars that
could be going into education
infrastructure military it could be
going into things other than trying to
take care of somebody's uh condition uh
that's caused predominantly by the
individual themselves yes uh if you want
to call it taunting by I mean the aroma
I mean some of these things are so I
mean you walk by the shop and you say oh
man I got to go in there get a taste of
that you know but but I think everything
is people always say oh you should be
moderate everybody that's true but how
many moderate people do you know I mean
most people are not are not the kind of
moderate kind
um but these are all the kinds of issues
that deviate away from what I'm saying
and what I'm saying is I do the basic
research to say how we can effectively
manage a disease that has wide
implications in society and personal
behavior and these kinds of things but
we have a strategy that could make
things better
and then your questions are opening eyes
to say why why we don't do that or or
start to initiate those kinds of
approaches for management prevention
you know I think most of us that know we
should do and should not do but I I
think that management is another issue
as you said a person becomes desperate
they have stage four or something and
now they don't have much time left and
they want to do something that's going
to help them and and that's where uh our
our research comes in to say there are
things you can do and it would be
wonderful if you could get that done at
your local hospital and if not you're
going to have to do a lot more reading
on your own to try to to try to do the
best you can
if you enjoyed that clip press here for
the full episode I'll see you over there
and I have the science to say what you
should do but it's up to you to do to
determine whether or not you want to do
that the body will turn on the tumor and
dissolve it and eat it together with the
diet drug combination